<h1>Automatidata Project</h1>

 ### [Google Advanced Data Analytics Certificate](https://github.com/fouzan-akhter/automatidata_project)

<h2>Project Description</h2>
The Automatidata Project, conducted as part of the Google Advanced Data Analytics course on Coursera, centered on consulting for the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission (TLC). The objective was to develop predictive models using regression and machine learning to estimate taxi fares and predict customer tipping behavior.
<br>
<br>
The dataset, provided by Google for educational purposes, encompassed information from over 200,000 taxi and limousine licensees, representing approximately one million daily trips. The project began with importing necessary libraries and performing exploratory data analysis (EDA). Categorical variables were encoded, and relationships between variables were analyzed, incorporating hypothesis testing for deeper insights.
<br>
<br>
The project aimed at creating a regression model for fare estimation and a machine learning model to predict tipping behavior (generous, ungenerous, or no tip). Outliers and missing values were addressed, and new variables were engineered for enhanced model performance. The project incorporated various data visualizations to facilitate understanding.
<br>
<br>
For the fare estimation, the data was standardized, and a linear regression model was constructed. Results were summarized and evaluated using graphical representations. Simultaneously, for predicting tipping behavior, exploratory data analysis, cleaning, and feature engineering were conducted. The project involved fitting the data into a random forest model with hyper-parameter tuning, followed by a similar process for an XGBoost model.
<br>
<br>
Comparative analysis revealed that the Random Forest model outperformed the XGBoost model, leading to the creation of two distinct models: a regression model for fare prediction and a machine learning model for tipping prediction. The project's comprehensive approach, from data exploration to model building and evaluation, showcased the application of advanced analytics techniques in addressing real-world challenges for the TLC and exemplified the end-to-end data science workflow.
<br>
<br>
Note: The dataset and project discussed herein were not generated by me but were integral components of the Google Advanced Data Analytics course provided on Coursera. It's important to note that numerous variations of this project may exist on the internet, and my account of it is specific to my interpretation and implementation. I want to emphasize that I do not claim ownership of the dataset; rather, it was curated by Google for educational purposes as part of the course. It's crucial to recognize that this dataset does not mirror the actual data from the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission; instead, it serves as a pedagogical tool designed to facilitate learning within the context of the course.

<br />
 
<h2>Programming Language</h2>

- <b>Python</b> 

<h2>Environment Used </h2>

- <b>Jupyter Notebook</b>

<!--
 ```diff
- text in red
+ text in green
! text in orange
# text in gray
@@ text in purple (and bold)@@
```
--!>
